# 1. Concepts

## 1.1 General

1.1.1. Disney Lorcana cards are published in multiple languages. For the purposes of gameplay, the English cards, rules, rulings, and clarifications are the official versions.

1.1.2. Card text and rules may be updated or corrected. The most current updated or corrected information is the official version for gameplay.

1.1.3. The Disney Lorcana TCG is a game played with two or more people. Each player needs a deck of Disney Lorcana cards that they'll use in the game. See 2.1 "Deck Rules" for deck requirements.

1.1.4. Each player needs a way to track their lore totals and mark damage on characters and locations. This can be any method players find convenient that is clear to all players in the game.

1.1.5. Disney Lorcana tournaments may have additional rules that can affect the ones in this document. Please refer to the Disney Lorcana TCG Tournament Rules for further reference.

1.1.6. Some cards include reminder text set in italics. Reminder text isn't rules text. It's only a memory aid and may vary without changing the meaning of keyword rules.

## 1.2 Golden Rules

1.2.1. If the text of a card contradicts a game rule, the card effect supersedes that rule.

*Example:* The game doesn't allow a character to challenge a ready character, but a player has a character with an ability that reads, "This character can challenge ready characters." The ability overrides the game rule and allows that character to challenge a ready character.

1.2.2. If a rule or effect prevents something from happening, that rule or effect supersedes other rules and effects that allow it to happen.

*Example:* An effect says that players can't play actions. Another effect instructs a player they may play an action for free. That player still can't play an action.

1.2.3. Do as much as you can – If an effect tells a player to do something, the player does as much as possible even if some part of that effect can't be done, except in specific cases (see 7.1.2).

*Example:* Strike a Good Match has an effect that reads, "Draw 2 cards, then choose and discard a card." If an effect prevents the player of this action from drawing any cards, they still have to choose and discard a card.

1.2.4. Choices that are made as a part of an effect are made as the effect is resolving and not as part of playing the card or using the ability with the effect.

*Example:* The active player has a Let the Storm Rage On in their hand and no characters in play. The opponent has a Cogsworth – Grandfather Clock (which has Ward) in play and has no other characters in play. Let the Storm Rage On has an effect that reads, "Deal 2 damage to chosen character. Draw a card." When the active player plays Let the Storm Rage On, the opponent isn't sure they can play it, since there are no characters in play for them to choose. The choice of character happens as the effect is resolving, though, not when the card is played. Because the active player can't choose Cogsworth as the effect is resolving, they do as much as they can and draw a card without dealing 2 damage.

## 1.3 Active Player

1.3.1. When a player starts their turn, they become the active player. When a player ends their turn, they're no longer the active player.

## 1.4 Opponent

1.4.1. Anyone a player is playing against is their opponent.

1.4.2. Some game formats allow a player to designate one or more players as teammates. Such teammates are identified before the game starts. As teammates aren't playing against each other, they aren't opponents to one another.

## 1.5 Playing Cards

1.5.1. Players can play a card whenever they're the active player and there are no effects to resolve. To play a card, the player reveals it from their hand and pays the cost (see 4.3.4).

## 1.6 Types of Abilities

1.6.1. There are several kinds of abilities in the Disney Lorcana TCG.

1.6.1.1. Keywords are words or shortened phrases that represent a larger ability or abilities. See section 10 for the full list of current keywords.

1.6.1.2. Triggered abilities continuously look for a specific condition and have an effect when that condition is met. Triggered abilities follow the rules in section 7.4.

1.6.1.3. Activated abilities have a cost and an effect that occurs if that cost is paid. Activated abilities follow the rules in section 7.5.

1.6.1.4. Static abilities are effects that are continuously active, either for a fixed length of time or for as long as the card generating the effect is in play. Static abilities follow the rules in section 7.6.

1.6.1.5. Replacement effects are generated by some abilities. These replace one effect with another. Replacement effects follow the rules in section 7.7.

1.6.2. Whenever an effect would affect multiple players at the same time, the active player resolves that effect first, then in turn order each other player resolves that effect.

*Example:* Donald Duck – Perfect Gentleman has the ability Allow Me that reads, "At the start of your turn, each player may draw a card." While the triggered ability is resolving, the active player resolves their part of the effect first and draws a card. Then in turn order each other player resolves their part of the effect and draws a card. Once all players have finished resolving their respective parts of the effect, it has fully resolved and the game continues.

## 1.7 The Bag

1.7.1. The bag is the zone where triggered abilities wait to resolve. It's not a physical zone but a way to picture the process of resolving triggered abilities. Think of each triggered ability as a marble and the bag as a place to put them until they're resolved. Every marble is separate from every other marble, and a player can look through the bag of marbles to select the one they wish to resolve next.

1.7.2. It's possible for both the active player and their opponent(s) to add triggered abilities to the bag at the same time. Resolving these abilities follows the rules in section 8.7, "Bag."

## 1.8 Players' Cards

1.8.1. Cards a player brings to the table in their deck are their cards, and that player makes any decisions necessary for the card and its effects unless otherwise specified by an effect.

1.8.2. His/Her/Its/Their – When a card refers to "his," "her," "its," or "their" player, it's referring to the person who played the card. When a card refers to "his," "her," "its," or "their" turn, it's referring to its player's turn.

1.8.3. You/Your/Yours – Card effects address the player who played that card. When a card refers to "you," "your," or "yours," it's referring to the player of the card, even if the ability containing the reference was granted by an opposing effect.

## 1.9 Game State Check

1.9.1. There is a set of conditions the game checks for with certain required actions happening when one or more of those conditions is met. This is called a game state check and is made up of two parts: the game state condition and the required action. A game state condition is a specific circumstance the game state can achieve. A required action is what happens in the game when a game state condition is met. The following are the conditions that the game state check looks for and the required action each creates.

1.9.1.1. If a player has 20 or more lore, that player wins the game.

1.9.1.2. If a player attempted to draw from a deck with no cards since the last game state check, that player loses the game.

1.9.1.3. If a character or location has damage equal to or greater than its Willpower {W}, that character or location is banished. A character or location banished as a result of damage dealt by a character in a challenge since the last game state check or as a result of damage dealt, put, or moved by a character's ability since the last game state check is considered banished by that character.

1.9.2. A game state check is made at the end of every step, after any action or ability is finished resolving, and after each effect in the bag is finished resolving. During a game state check, first check and complete all win and loss conditions and required actions. Then if there are no win or loss conditions met, check and complete all other conditions and required actions. Once all required actions are complete, the game state check repeats until there are no further required actions to complete. Triggered abilities that occurred during this process are then added to the bag to resolve.

1.9.2.1. Any required actions generated from a game state check happen in turn order. If a player would win and lose the game at the same time as a result of the same game state check, that player wins the game.

1.9.3. Once a required action is completed, the game state check occurs again.

1.9.4. Abilities that trigger as a result of a game state check are added to the bag as soon as the check and any required actions are fully completed.

1.9.5. If multiple required actions would happen at once, a single combined required action takes place, and all of the required actions happen simultaneously.

## 1.10 Multiplayer Games

1.10.1. Multiplayer games are played with three or more players. Team games are a subset of multiplayer play that are not covered in this document.

1.10.2. Multiplayer games follow the same rules as two-player games, with the following exceptions.

1.10.2.1. At the end of each player's turn, play proceeds to the player on their left rather than going back and forth across the table.

1.10.2.2. If an ability requires more than one player to do something at the same time, the active player does it first. Then proceed to the left, one player at a time, until all players are done.

1.10.2.3. After a player loses the game from attempting to draw from a deck with no cards (see 1.9.1.2), they must leave the game immediately. All of that player's cards and effects are removed from the game, including any static effects that would have ended during their current or future turns as well as any triggered abilities that player added to the bag that haven't resolved.

1.10.3. Some multiplayer game formats use simultaneous turns.

1.10.3.1. During a simultaneous turn, all players on the same team progress through the phases and steps of the game at the same time. During the Main Phase, the players can take any turn action they could take normally in any player order they wish. Players must complete one turn action in its entirety before moving to the next turn action.

1.10.3.2. If triggered abilities or effects are added to the bag by multiple players during a simultaneous turn, these triggered abilities or effects are added to the bag by the team as a whole, and the order in which they are resolved is chosen by the team. Otherwise, resolving follows the same rules found in section 8.7, "Bag."

*Example:* Three players are members of the same team taking a simultaneous turn. During the Ready step of the Beginning Phase, all three players ready their cards at the same time. During the Set step, all three players gain lore from locations they have in play with a {L} characteristic and then add any effects or abilities that triggered during the Ready step to the bag at the same time. In the Draw step, all three players draw a card from their decks at the same time.

After the game moves into the Main Phase, the players take a simultaneous turn together. The first player wants to put a card into their inkwell. The second wants to quest, and the third has decided to have one of their characters challenge an opposing character. The players can decide the order of these turn actions, but each turn action must be completed in its entirety before the next player can act.

During the End of Turn Phase, the players declare the end of their turn. All triggers are added to the bag at the same time and all "this turn" effects end at the same time.
